well as I mentioned we've also been
taking a closer look at the evacuation
Corridor south from the northern tip of
Gaza which has been opened once again
today and our reporter Merlin Thomas
from BBC verify has been looking at that
Corridor and what the journey South
entails Israel has been ordering
civilians in Northern Gaza to move South
for their safety as they continue their
offensive in the north but what does
that mean for civilians of Gaza well the
Gaza Strip is one of the most densely
populated areas on earth now there are
over a million people people living in
the northern part before this conflict
started and the Israeli military have
been telling people to move South using
this specific Road Salah it's one of the
two main arteries connecting the North
to the South and we've seen some of them
some of these people moving south as you
can see some of them are carrying White
Flags children men women carrying with
them all the possessions that they have
now this footage was filmed by the AFP
news agency on Monday they spoke to one
of those Guardians on the road about her
experience
it was so scary we saw tanks from both
sides we didn't see soldiers just tanks
we held our hands up and we kept walking
there were so many of us we were holding
White Flags it's true that we were
scared but finally we made it
through so how has the Israeli military
been telling them these are some of
those pictures of the mass drops of
leaflets now these white specks you can
see here are those leaflets dropping
down from the Israeli military onto the
ground and they had messages urging
locals to move to the South for their
own safety now they've also been posting
messages on X for example this one today
the Israeli military posted in Arabic
that the main road here for evacuation
the one we've just been talking about
would be open between 10: in the morning
and 4: in the afternoon local
time yesterday the Israeli military
posted a video on X showing the
civilians walking on salahadin road now
we've just paused this video here so so
you can see an Israeli tank in the
foreground we've managed to verify this
using the shape of the buildings and the
road composition as approximately 3 km
north of worthy Gaza the what the
Israelis consider to be the boundary
between the North and South of Gaza
we've also found this satellite imagery
taken yesterday showing some of the
stret of the road and if you look
closely you can see here the outlines of
people on the road moving down the road
down south but if you look elsewhere in
the image you can also see
the damage to the buildings and the
rubble and the debris that Spilled Out
onto the road and this is what those
people will have had to cross and
finally if you look here you can
actually spot an Israeli tank here too
right next to the road which these
people will have had to walk
past we've also been analyzing satellite
imagery captured on the 31st of October
and the 3rd of November and using both
of these we've been able to assess the
amount of damage on the road and the
buildings alongside it so every single
Dot here every single red dot here
represents damage of some kind to the
road whether that's craters on the road
to the tarmac of the road or buildings
damag close to the road we can't tell
exactly when this damage occurred but
let's take a closer look at these two
areas
here this one here you can see a crater
on the main road itself this is what
people will have had to
pass and this here you can see some
buildings here in the middle destroyed
and the debris that's scattered onto the
road that people again will have had to
cross
now we don't know how many people have
used this road to move to safety the UN
suggested that thousands have moved on
one single day but the question remains
as the fighting continues in the north
how many more desperate people will have
to make this
Choice Merlin Thomas from BBC verify
looking at that evacuation South and the
UN has estimated that one and a half
million people in Gaza are now displaced
well a little earlier I spoke to our
colleague rushi abalu our correspondent
inside Gaza he's in the southern part of
Gaza in Khan Unice and asked him whether
he had seen evidence of more people
moving south today thousands of people
arrived today since the opening hour was
a bit a little bit bigger from 9:00
until until 4:00 but this journey is
really miserable for the people I met a
couple of them today who arrived to this
Camp here in Naser Hospital people were
walking for about 3 4 kilometers because
there is no access for cars or any sort
of Transportation so the people have to
to walk I saw a father who's carrying
his son over his shoulder in In The Heat
Of The Sun uh which it's unusual weather
here in Gaza in in November and it's
really about 30 degree in Gaza but yes
People Under The Sun were walking
carrying their their kids there some of
their belongings if they can and they
made this journey into South why because
the fighting
in Gaza City is really intensified
taking very serious fight near the alotz
hospital in in Gaza it's this it's a t
Hawa area it's a neighborhood in the
southwest of Gaza as the tanks Advance
very close to the hospital and people
there very few people remain in the area
and communication is really hard but I
was talking to someone who flee this
morning and he said it was a real gun
battle in the in the area most of the
buildings around that neighborhood from
the beginning of the
Israeli attack on on Gaza following the
Hamas crossb attack this area was
heavily bombed from Air for days and now
it's been bombed from sea and from
artillery units in the ground the the
picture that I saw is really showing
hundreds of targets has been like
destroyed in this building this area is
considered you know the most of the
healthy people they live here it's it's
quite a new area that was built 25 years
ago most of the buildings are seven
story building like compound in the area
most of the building were hit either
completely flatten to the ground or hit
some of the great damage to some of the
building the fighting also intensified
near Beach camp Beach camp is the only
refugee camp in Gaza City with about 60
70,000 people live in that camp most of
them were left but people were still
there and people were many bodies are
under their houses according to health
ministry here fighting and that
direction is north west of Gaza it's all
around the coastal the coastal road
where all of the fighting is going on
but also the tanks are advancing from
another another position which is south
of the city so now most of the tanks are
surrounding significant part of the Gaza
City and they are advancing High
into the AL hospital where about 14,000
people are taking the hospital as
shelter as well as 100 patient yesterday
the hospital said that they can't move
people they can't move patient from the
hospital because there is no Road around
it is not
damaged